### Course Overview
**Class:** Graduate Electromagnetism (PHYS-6410)
**Instructor:** Moussa N'Gom, Professor of Physics (ngomm@rpi.edu)

**Description:** Classical electromagnetic theory. Maxwell's theory of electromagnetism, electrostatics, macroscopic media, physical optics, and the elementary theory of multipole radiation will be covered in-depth. At the conclusion of this class, we expect to understand it more deeply, and gain a considerable technical ability in analytic methods of solution. The advanced topics we will explore here are predominantly those involving the interaction of charged particles with each other and with electromagnetic fields at relativistic speeds.

**Learning Outcomes:** The first aim is to present the basic subject matter as a coherent whole, with emphasis on the unity of electric and magnetic phenomena, both in their physical basis and in the mode of mathematical description. The second, concurrent aim is to develop and utilize a number of topics in mathematical physics which are useful in both electromagnetic theory and wave mechanics. These include Green’s theorems and Green’s functions, orthonormal expansions, spherical harmonics, cylindrical and spherical Bessel functions. A third and perhaps most important purpose is the presentation of new material, especially on the interaction of relativistic charged particles with electromagnetic fields. We will begin in the traditional manner with electrostatics. 

**Assessment & Grading:** The homework is an essential part of the course. You should attempt all the problems yourself, but you may argue with your colleagues about the basic ideas underlying the problems. Your solutions should go beyond the usual "just writing down" solution, in that special care should be given to the presentation and discussion of the logic of the solution. The main purpose of the problem sets is to help learn and solidify you theoretical training, not to grade performance. They are included in the final grade as a safety net in the event exams do not consistently reflect a student’s understanding. Sitting down by yourself and reasoning your way through a problem will help you learn the material deeply, identify concepts that are not clear, and develop the analytical skills needed for a successful career in science. If you can solve the problems by yourself, you can expect to do well on the exams. Cumulative mastery of homework is intended to be the primary learning tool in preparation for exams. There will be two midterm.
