As a foreword, I would like to express that the following letter is not intended to be verbal or written judgment. I have found that it is easier for me to articulate my thoughts and feelings through text, as I often have much more time to decide on the wording and tonal implication behind such, and thus giving me much less anxiety.

---
Recently, I've been experiencing significant stress, mainly pertaining to the *feeling* that I am insufficient to meet expectations set for me as a new Physics Ph.D. student. I often feel that I am not dedicating enough time to develop my career, both personally and academically. 

I also often have a hard time when it comes to interacting with people, especially those in positions of power or those who seem to represent dominant cultural or neurotypical standards. I find it easier to connect with people who have faced adversity or who are from non-traditional backgrounds. That said, I have immense respect for the faculty I’ve interacted with, but I often worry that when I state things matter-of-fact, always with the expressed intent to voice how I feel about a matter, that I come off as judgmental, needy, and rude; despite how I am often perceived, I very rarely have personal issues with individual people, and often get misinterpreted in ways that I do not intend. I would like to stress that other people are not *wrong*, and I do not think they are, but it can often be a strong trigger of anxiety due to past experience.

I have worry that what I write here in this document might elicit a response that is either defensive or diminished. Not that I believe that the reader will feel that way, but that in past experiences letters like these have often hurt me more than helped, but I believe that this time it might be different, as I think most of what I say here is adjacently universal to Ph.D. students.

---
In recent developments, I have been newly diagnosed with Attention Deficit Hyperactive Disorder. While the description of my behaviors in this light have been new, all prior behavior was present for the vast majority, if not the entirety, of my life. While there are many struggles and benefits that I have been afforded by my existence, some of higher importance will be mentioned further in the document, especially in relation to completion of a dissertation.

Something I've discovered over the many years I've been doing any form of work, whether school or in industry, is that it is immensely difficult to remain engaged in certain kinds of work. In particular, work that becomes excessively repetitive, or in work where I am not given clear guidance and a rigid routine to follow. I have discovered that I am exceptionally well-suited for following explicit instructions of proper detail, and I can lead a group to delegate tasks to achieve a future goal. However, I have also realized that I am incapable of both simultaneously, and to achieve such requires my belief that I have *strong knowledge* of a topic before I decide to even consider starting a task in such topic.

---
With this in mind, what I would like to ask is that I can present what I would like as the basis of my future plan of study at RPI, and that we can adjust my expectations and design in order to fit the required criteria of the academic degree. While I know that not all requests are reasonable to accommodate, better I can work around the system while allowing for what I believe is best for myself will allow me to have significantly less anxiety.

I often find that my disability makes it very hard to work with information that I determine to be incomplete, and that I have insufficient competence in, that prevents me from further progress. Obviously, I know this significantly conflicts with the premise of a Ph.D. project, being that the nature of novel research is that it is *inherently uncertain*. However, in prior research experiences, I've spend the vast majority of my time reading papers/documents (on the order of >50%), and I have found that to be effective for myself. As part of my dissertation, I would like to spend the vast majority of my time reading, especially if resources are physically printed.

For the first two years here, since I am offered the ability to be a Teaching Assistant in order to cover my continuation of study at RPI, I would like to prioritize that I am able to focus on my classwork, and that I can spend my free time to contemplate and abstract the information I had been presented in-lecture. I keep extensive documentation of my informational note-taking, and often return to prior lectures (and topics) in order to rectify abstract notions and loose connections among the content offered.

I do understand that it is imperative that I develop my ability to work on projects with other people, and that it may not always be within my narrow scope of interest. Some adjustment to my optimal design would likely need to include that I work on computational, experimental, and/or collaborative efforts in order to both justify my placement at RPI and to extend myself into places that I might not be as comfortable being in. In addition, I feel that I will be much more successful with an advisor who assigns research tasks akin to homework, with the expectation that I am to reach or exceed goals and deadlines, while also making such deadlines well known.

I believe that I can worry much less that I will lose the passion for a topic, as well as maintaining hard work, if I am as well-informed on a subset of topics that I would wish to explore; preferably, I would choose a topic that also have a faculty presence at RPI, and I am very willing to be flexible so long as I believe that I can be successful in a long-term project. If, through extensive research, I am able to become more confident in my universal understanding of physics and fields that would likely be of my best interest, I feel that I will be able to complete a dissertation without any extra anxiety/stress that isn't standard for the average student.

---
What I had learned my entire life is that you will not get things without asking for them. Often, such requests are discarded, and your response to rejection is often an indication of how prior experience has shaped your behavior in the present. What I am working on is to be flexible in the moments that seem insurmountably overwhelming, and to be able to design a path for myself that allows me to be productive, but also flexible enough in order for my routine to work with others. *Uncertainty*, for me, is the hardest challenge to overcome, because I want to be stable in what inputs and outputs I get from tasks, and only making adjustments as needed when the environment or something unexpected changes.

I hope what I have written has given better insight into how I perceive the Ph.D. program, and what I would like to be able to get out of it. I really like being a scholar, and exploiting my skills in it in order to adjust to academia or industry is something I would like to work on overall. I really would like to work with RPI and the physics faculty to become the best researcher than I can be, and to full utilize the potential I know I have.


