As a foreword, I would like to express that the following writ is not intended to be verbal or written judgment of any individual, whether faculty, student, or groups thereof. I feel that it is easier for me to write and articulate my feelings through text, as I often have much more time to decide on the wording and indirect intention behind such, and thus gives me much less anxiety.

---
Recently, I've been having a significant amount of stress pertaining to the external feeling that I am insufficient to perform all tasks that should be "expected" from a new Physics Ph.D. student. I've often felt that I do not spend enough time on the development of my career, both personal and academic (related to requirements). 

I often have a hard time when it comes to interfacing with people, especially if they are in a position of power, neurotypical, or of the prominent culture that the interaction takes place. I often have an easier time with those who are from external, or have experiences that would suggest that they likely have faced adversity in the past as a shared basis.

While I have significant respect for all faculty that I have had repeated exposure to, I often worry that when I state things matter-of-fact, always with the expressed intent to voice how I feel about a matter, that I come off as judgmental, needy, and rude; despite how I am often perceived, I very rarely have personal issues with individual people, and often get misinterpreted in a way that I do not intend. I would like to stress that other people are not *wrong*, and I do not think they are, but it can often be a strong trigger of anxiety due to past experience.

I have worry that what I write here in this document might elicit a response that is either defensive or diminished. Not that I believe that you, the reader, will feel that way, but that in past experiences letters like these have often hurt me more than helped, but I believe that this time it might be different, as I think most of what I say here is adjacently universal to Ph.D. students.

---
In recent developments, I have been newly diagnosed with Attention Deficit Hyperactive Disorder. While the description of my behaviors in this light have been new, all prior behavior was present for the vast majority, if not the entirety, of my life. While there are many struggles and benefits that I have been afforded by my existence, some of higher importance will be mentioned further in the document, especially in relation to completion of a dissertation.

Something I've discovered over the many years I've been doing any form of work, whether school or in industry, is that it is immensely difficult to remain engaged in certain kinds of work. In particular, work that becomes excessively repetitive, or in work where I am not given clear guidance and a rigid routine to follow. I have discovered that I am exceptionally well-suited for following explicit instructions of proper detail, and I can lead a group to delegate tasks to achieve a future goal. However, I have also realized that I am incapable of both simultaneously, and to achieve such requires my belief that I have strong knowledge of a topic before I decide to even consider starting a task in such topic.

With this in mind, what I would like to ask is that I can present what I would like as the basis of my future plan of study at RPI, and that we can adjust my expectations and design in order to fit the required criteria of the academic degree. While I know that not all requests are reasonable to accommodate, better I can work around the system while allowing for what I believe is best for myself will allow me to have significantly less anxiety.

I often find that my disability makes it very hard to work with information that I determine to be incomplete, and that I have insufficient competence in, that prevents me from further progress. Obviously, I know this significantly conflicts with the premise of a Ph.D. project, being that the nature of novel research is that it is inherently *uncertain*. However, in prior research experiences, I've spend the vast majority of my time reading papers/documents (on the order of >50%), and I have found that to be effective for myself. As part of my dissertation, I would like to spend the vast majority of my time reading, especially if resources are physically printed, as opposed to digital (but that is not of the essence).

For the first two years here, since I am offered the ability to be a Teaching Assistant in order to cover my continuation of study at RPI, I would like to prioritize that I am able to focus on my classwork, and that I can spend my free time contemplate and abstract the information I had been presented in-lecture. I keep extensive documentation of my informational note-taking, and often return to prior lectures (and topics) in order to rectify abstract notions and loose connections among the content offered.

I do understand that it is imperative that I develop my ability to work on projects with other people, and that it may not always be within my narrow scope of interest. Some adjustment to my optimal design would likely need to include that I work on computational, experimental, and/or collaborative efforts in order to both justify my placement at RPI and to extend myself into places that I might not be as comfortable being in. In addition, I feel that I will be much more successful with an advisor who assigns research tasks akin to homework, with the expectation that I am to reach or exceed goals and deadlines, while also making such deadlines well known.

I believe that I can worry much less that I will lose the passion for a topic, as well as maintaining hard work, if I am as well-informed on a subset of topics that I would wish to explore; preferably, I would choose a topic that also have a faculty presence at RPI, and I am very willing to be flexible so long as I believe that I can be successful in a long-term project. 

---
What I had learned my entire life is that you will not get things without asking for them. Often, such requests are discarded, and your response to rejection is often an indication of how prior experience has shaped your behavior in the present. What I am working on is to be flexible in the moments that seem insurmountably overwhelming, and to be able to design a path for myself that allows me to be productive, but also flexible enough in order for my routine to work with others. *Uncertainty*, for me, is the hardest challenge to overcome, because I want to be stable in what inputs and outputs I get from tasks, and only making adjustments as needed when the environment or something unexpected changes.

I hope what I have written has given better insight into how I perceive the Ph.D. program, and what I would like to be able to get out of it. I really like being a scholar, and exploiting my skills in it in order to adjust to academia or industry is something I would like to work on overall.


